Changes as discussed June 5 (#20)
Linaro/virtio-msg-spec: transport-msg.tex

If the bus supports dynamic addition or removal of devices at runtime, it
\emph{MAY} announce these events using messages:
\begin{itemize}

>   \item \busref{EVENT_DEVICE} with state ready for a newly available device,

Reviewer: suggestion only
```suggestion
  \item \busref{EVENT_DEVICE} with state DEVICE_BUS_STATE_READY indicates that a new device is set up and ready
```

>   \item \busref{EVENT_DEVICE} with state removed for a device that is no longer accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item \busref{EVENT_DEVICE} with state DEVICE_BUS_STATE_REMOVED indicates a device that is no longer accessible.
```

    configuration space.
  \item \textbf{Number of virtqueues}: The maximum number of virtqueues the
    device supports.
  \item \textbf{Number of SHM segments}: The number of device owned
    shared memory segments this device has.
  \item \textbf{Admin virtqueue starting index}: The virtqueue index for the
    first admin virtqueue supported by the device.

>   \item \textbf{Admin virtqueue count}: The number of admin virtqueues

Reviewer: Do we need a field for the split/packed queue type?

Author: Split/packed queues are negociated via feature bits.  I don't see anything in the virtio-mmio transport registers for split/packed.  If you have a reference please let me know

Reviewer: my bad,  `VIRTIO_F_RING_PACKED` do the job at driver/device level

Request & 0 & 4 & Device status \\
& 4 & 4 & Configuration generation count \\
& 8 & 4 & Configuration offset \\
& 12 & 4 & Number of bytes (may be zero) \\
& 16 & ... & Configuration data \\
\hline
\end{tabular}

> The number of bytes field may be zero. If so the configuration data field

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
The number of bytes field \emph{MAY} be zero. If so the configuration data field.
```
 Same for the field above

Author: OK

Note: Actually the upstream spec only uses MAY not \emph{MAY}

\hline
\end{tabular}

If virtqueue index is 0xFFFFFFFF then it indicates that all virtqueues should be
polled for available buffers. This may be useful on the device side when the
bus implementation is using out-of-band notifications, using polling, or when

> emulating or bridging to another virtio transport.

Reviewer: I 'm trying to figure out how it could be used. 
Except if I missed something the 0xFFFFFFFF can only come from the bus, right? the driver give a virtqueue index.
Seems to me that the "may be" could be challenged, requesting a concrete example.

Author: See above

\hline
\end{tabular}

If virtqueue index is 0xFFFFFFFF then it indicates that all virtqueues should be

> polled for available buffers. This may be useful on the device side when the

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be "on the driver side" instead of the bus side. If out of band or polling is used this message is generated by the bus with data.

Reviewer 2: in fact to be coherent with the event used text, it might be better to just no say which side (see sentence at 1077).

Author: EVENT_AVAIL is driver -> device.  If the message is not sent in-band then the device side might not know which virtqueue it is for.  In this case the device side BUS can use this value to cause the device side transport to poll each virtqueue of the device.  So the usefulness is on the device side.

The device side bus might not know which device either.  I am assuming that the bus will make a loop per active device and send this event for each.  We COULD do this for virtqueues also but this would mean the bus peeking into the per device transport instance structure.

Author: I have deleted this value and description for both EVENT_AVAIL and EVENT_USED, at least for now.  We can always add it later if needed but it may just be better to do the loop in the bus.

Some bus implementations will need to have a loop anyway and the bus having visibility to the common virtio-msg instance structure is not a big deal in most cases.

Author: On call June 19, it was agreed to take this out at least for now.

Type & Offset & Size (bytes) & Content \\
\hline \hline
Request & 0 & 2 & Device Number \\
        & 2 & 2 & Device Bus State \\
\hline
\end{tabular}

\begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|}
\hline
Device Bus State & Value & Meaning \\
\hline
\hline
DEVICE_BUS_STATE_READY      & 0x0  & Device is present and ready \\
\hline

> DEVICE_BUS_STATE_REMOVED    & 0x1  & Device is no longer present \\

Reviewer: What about inversing the logic (1 for ready, 0 for removed) or using 0x1 for READED and 0x2 for REMOVED ?

Reviewer 2: we should not use the value 0 and keep it reserved so using 1 and 2 sounds good

Author: There is really only one normal/ready state so that should be first.  There are many types of not ready but we will start with just one "removed".   I will use 1 for ready and 2 for removed.
